1 Dec 2008 A Tale of Two Projects ~ By Robert Howard A business tale of what it takes to turn around troubled projects. The year is 2005 and times are good. The business environment is vibrant and the economy is strong. Large businesses are committing large amounts of capital and resources to implement new strategies, establish new capabilities, and open new markets. It was no different at PintCo, where Jack works as a Director of Customer Relationship Management. Jack walked into work on Monday morning like any other. He dropped his briefcase in his office, grabbed a cup of coffee and headed down the hall to meet with his boss, Brandon, about one of the company's troubled projects. Although Jack had substantial experience, he had only recently joined PintCo after being hired away from a chief competitor. He was still learning about some of the nuances of his current employer. After the typical morning banter, Brandon and Jack got to the topic at hand. “Jack, I'll get straight to the point. I need to you to take over the Customer Master File project from Paul.” Brandon said. He continued, “We hired you because of your significant project management expertise. I know that you've turned around a lot more difficult situations than this.” Over an hour later, Jack emerged from Brandon's office and set out to learn more about the challenge that Brandon had posed to him. Jack was an experienced business leader and project manager. He had seen more than his fair share of ugly projects; some he turned around while others had spun hopelessly out of control. He would be able to tell very quickly how this one would go based on the makeup and culture of the project team. Trouble Waters Over the course of the next few weeks, Jack took over the Customer Master File project, met with key project team members, and conducted dozens of interviews with key stakeholders. It was only a few weeks since Brandon had handed the keys to him for this troubled project, and now Jack was back in Brandon's office to give a rather stark update on the situation. “Brandon, I've talked to the project team and to key stakeholders, and I know why this project is in trouble,” Jack started. “If you truly want me to turn this project around, I'll need your support to make some critical changes.” Brandon, a 20-year veteran at PintCo, knew what was coming. He had seen too many projects start, flounder, and then fail at the company. He didn't want to hear that another project was on the brink of failure, but he asked anyway, “What did you find out, Jack, and what can I do to help?” 1Jack drew a deep breath and began to explain his findings. “Brandon, as you know this project has been in flight for nearly six months now and it is already behind schedule and over budget.” Jack went on, “In talking to the project team and other stakeholders, I don't see the situation getting better without making some pretty significant changes.” Jack's experience helped him to quickly identify a number of critical issues with the project, which he carefully outlined for Brandon: “The scope of the project is not well defined,” “The IT architects are sitting in their ivory towers and disagree with the project's direction,” “The project team is not functioning as a team,” “There is a lack of clear executive sponsorship, and” “Steve from Marketing is trying to manipulate this project for his own political gain.” “I'm not going to sugar coat this for you Brandon,” Jack explained. “I've seen this situation far too often in my career, and if we don't change the situation this project will fail in glorious fashion.” Foundations for Success Brandon knew that what Jack said was true, and he also knew that changing the situation would be difficult, painful, and potentially costly. He reluctantly agreed with Jack, and together they laid out several key changes. “Thanks for working with me on this Brandon,” Jack said. “Just to confirm, let me summarise the changes that we agreed to implement:” “First, we're going to stop the current project and recreate a clear and well-defined scope and get consensus buy-in on the new scope.” “Second, we're going end the architectural holy wars by assigning key IT architects to the project on a full time basis.” “Third, we're going to co-locate the team and assign members to a full-time basis on the project. No more part-time participation.” “Fourth, Brandon, you agree to be much more visible and an active participant to drive key decisions for the project, and” “Finally, Brandon - you are going to have a heart-to-heart with Steve and if necessary his boss - to eliminate any political agendas that could derail the project.” Brandon and Jack both agreed with the plan. Jack knew that some of these changes would be unpopular, but without them the project would be doomed. He left Brandon's office with a sense of relief and apprehension. There was still a lot of hard work and heavy lifting yet to be done… Celebrations Six months later, Jack ran into Brandon in the break room as they both were angling for their morning coffee refill. “Jack!”, Brandon shouted while patting Jack on the back. “Congratulations on getting the Customer Master File project into pilot. By all accounts, it has been a resounding success!” Brandon crowed. 2“Thank you,” Jack smiled and answered, “but you know it was pretty touch and go after we met in your office to plan the project turnaround. There were a lot of unhappy campers and several of them didn't like the idea of being assigned 100% to the project if you recall.” “But we quickly converted them - and now I see a project team that is hitting on all cylinders,” Jack added. “In fact, Sharon told me she was ready to quit six months ago - and now she's happier than ever and up for promotion.” Jack explained. “I love it when a plan comes together,” Jack said proudly as he turned to walk away and take on his next big project. ©Project Smart. All rights reserved ~ www.projectsmart.co.uk 3 COURSE OUTLINE 1 Course Name Information Technology Operations and Project Management (2020) and Code MGMT8680 Total Hours 42 Credits 3 Prerequisite(s) Corequisite(s) Course Description IT organizations execute practices based on defined processes to ensure consistent service delivery. Projects must be planned and implemented in a well-organized manner to maximize success. This course introduces structured IT operations through ITIL, the most commonly used system in IT management. As well, students will learn how to manage an IT project from concept to conclusion using industry standard project management techniques. Course Outcomes Successful completion of this course will enable the student to: 1. Describe the key knowledge areas of Project Management and the project management lifecycle. 2. Describe how projects are defined by the three key constraints of scope, schedule and cost. 3. Describe the key roles of project manager, project team members and project stakeholders. 4. Demonstrate the use of the key knowledge areas of Service Management and ITIL. 5. Demonstrate the use of the Service Management process, life cycle and practices. 6. Assess IT projects for risks and success factors. 7. Assess IT Service Management practices and systems for risks and success factors. 8. Identify and present best practices and recommendations to enhance IT projects and Service Management. 9. Defend and demonstrate the use of the best practices of successful organizational change. RETAIN THIS DOCUMENT FOR FUTURE EDUCATIONAL\EMPLOYMENT USESuccessful completion of the following units will enable the student to: 1.0 Managing Change 1.1. Compare Project Management and Service Management 2.0 Understanding Project Management 2.1. Describe the key concepts of project management 2.2. Apply the ethical and professional conduct of project management 2.3. Describe project management roles 3.0 Project Management Practices 3.1. Describe the project lifecycle and project best practices 3.2. Describe, develop and demonstrate the use of a project charter 3.3. Describe and apply the triple constraint of project management 4.0 Achieving Project Success 4.1. Describe the key elements of project success 4.2. Present a project plan based on best practices 5.0 Understanding Service Management 5.1. Describe the key concepts of service management 5.2. Apply the ethical and professional conduct of service management 5.3. Describe the guiding principle of service management 6.0 Service Management Practices 6.1. Explain the roles of service management 6.2. Explain service management practices 6.3. Explain service management relationships 6.4. Assign roles and responsibilities following service management best practices 7.0 The Four Dimensions of Service Management 7.1. Explain the four dimensions of service management 7.2. Model the four dimensions of service management 8.0 Service Value Chains 8.1. Explain service value chain activities 8.2. Model service chain practices 9.0 Delivering General, Service and Technical Management 9.1. Compare general management practices 9.2. Compare service management practices 9.3. Compare technical management practices 9.4. Compare general, service and technical management practices 10.0 Managing Organizational Change 10.1. Describe and discuss the human factors of organizational change 10.2. Present a change management plan that include both project management and service management RETAIN THIS DOCUMENT FOR FUTURE EDUCATIONAL\EMPLOYMENT USERequired Student Resources (Including textbooks and workbooks) • OER - O’Reilly Safari - A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge ( PMBOK® Guide )— Sixth Edition (ENGLISH), by Project Management Institute, Publisher: Project Management Institute, Release Date: September 2017 • OER - O’Reilly Safari - ITIL® 4 Essentials: Your essential guide for the ITIL 4 Foundation exam and beyond, by Claire Agutter, Publisher: IT Governance Publishing, Release Date: August 2019 • OER - O’Reilly Safari - ITIL® Foundation Essentials – ITIL 4 Edition - The ultimate revision guide, by Claire Agutter, Publisher: IT Governance Publishing, Release Date: June 2019 • OER - O’Reilly Safari - ITIL and Organizational Change, by Pamela Erskine, Publisher: IT Governance Publishing, Release Date: March 2013, 
ISBN: 9781849284240 • OER - O’Reilly Safari - It's All About Relationships: What ITIL Does Not Tell You by Kathy Mills, Suzanne Van Hove, Publisher: IT Governance Publishing, Release Date: July 2013, 
ISBN: 9781849284998 Evaluation In order to successfully complete this course, the student is required to meet the following evaluation criteria: Evaluation method Weighting Professional Interaction 8% Case Study Reflections 10% Service Tickets Labs (2) 10% Project Charter Written Assignment 12% Group Project Plan Presentation 15% Group Change Management Plan Report 20% Group Change Management Plan Presentation 25% 100.00% Other Conestoga College is committed to providing academic accommodations for students with documented disabilities. Please contact the Disability Services Office. Prepared by Sean Yo School Applied Computer Science & IT Date RETAIN THIS DOCUMENT FOR FUTURE EDUCATIONAL\EMPLOYMENT USEEES Learning Outcomes T R A a e s u g in s e h t f o r c s s e d e d Communication X X X • Reading 1. Communicate clearly, concisely and correctly in the written, X X X • Writing spoken, and visual form that fulfills the purpose and meets the • Speaking needs of the audience. • Listening 2. Respond to written, spoken, or visual messages in a manner • Presenting that ensures effective communication. • Visual literacy Numeracy • Understanding 3. Execute mathematical operations accurately and applying mathematical concepts and reasoning • Analyzing and using numerical data • Conceptualizing Critical thinking and X X X Problem Solving 4. Apply a systematic approach to solve problems. X X X • Analyzing 5. Use a variety of thinking skills to anticipate and solve problems. • Synthesizing • Evaluating • Decision making • Creative and innovative thinking Information X X X management 6. Locate, select, organize, and document information using X X X • Selecting and appropriate technology and information systems. using 7. Analyze, evaluate, and apply relevant information from a variety appropriate of sources. tools and technology for a task or a project • Computer literacy • Internet skills • Gathering and managing information Interpersonal X X X • Team work 8. Show respect for the diverse opinions, values, belief systems, X X X • Relationship and contributions of others. management RETAIN THIS DOCUMENT FOR FUTURE EDUCATIONAL\EMPLOYMENT USEEES Learning Outcomes T R A a e s u g in s e h t f o r c s s e d e d • Conflict 9. Interact with others in groups or teams in ways that contribute resolution to effective working relationships and the achievement of goals. • Leadership • Networking Personal X X X • Managing self 10. Manage the use of time and other resources to complete X X X • Managing projects. change and 11. Take responsibility for one’s own actions, decisions, and being flexible consequences. and adaptable • Engaging in reflective practices • Demonstrating personal responsibility RETAIN THIS DOCUMENT FOR FUTURE EDUCATIONAL\EMPLOYMENT USE Instructional Plan – MGMT8680 – S2020 School of Applied Computer Science and Information Technology Information Technology Infrastructure Program - 1485 Course Information Name Information Technology Operations and Project Management Code MGMT 8680 Faculty Information Professor/Instructor Sean Yo Email Syo@conestogac.on.ca Office Number Online Office Hours Online Program Specific Notes Please familiarize yourself with the Program Handbook. The Program Handbook contains many policies that affect your studies at Conestoga. Course Specific Notes (Optional Section) IT organizations execute practices based on defined processes to ensure consistent service delivery. Projects must be planned and implemented in a well-organized manner to maximize success. This course introduces structured IT operations through ITIL, the most commonly used system in IT management. As well, students will learn how to manage an IT project from concept to conclusion using industry standard project management techniques. Instructional Plan – MGMT8680 – S2020 Evaluation Summary Description % Professional Interaction 8% Case Study Reflections 10% Service Tickets Labs 10% Project Charter Written Assignment 12% Project Plan – Group Presentation 15% Change Management Plan – Group Report 20% Change Management Plan – Group Presentation 25% Total 100% Instructional Plan – MGMT8680 – S2020 Course Schedule Week Date WEEK 1 KEY CONCEPTS • Unit 1 – Managing Change o In Unit 1, we will be introduce to the overall concept of change management and how Project Management (PM) and Service Management (SM) are both part of organizational change management. o When you complete this unit, you will be able to ▪ Compare PM and SM. • Unit 2.1 – Understanding Project Management o In Unit 2, you will be introduced to Project Management, it’s (2.1) key concepts, (2.2) ethics and professional conduct and (2.3) roles. o When you complete this unit, you will be able to: ▪ Describe the key concepts of project management ▪ Apply the ethical and professional conduct of project management ▪ Describe project management roles REQUIRED PREPARATION • Why PM Matters • ITIL4 in 10 Minutes • PMBOK 1, 2 EVALUATION Assessment • 
DUE: None Date • Assigned: Project Management Case Study Reflection 1 Week Date WEEK 2 KEY CONCEPTS Instructional Plan – MGMT8680 – S2020 • Unit 2.2 & 2.3 – Understanding Project Management o In Unit 2, you will be introduced to Project Management, it’s (2.1) key concepts, (2.2) ethics and professional conduct and (2.3) roles. o When you complete this unit, you will be able to: ▪ Describe the key concepts of project management ▪ Apply the ethical and professional conduct of project management ▪ Describe project management roles • REQUIRED PREPARATION • PMBOK 3 EVALUATION Assessment • 
DUE: Project Management Case Study Reflection 1 Date • Assigned: Project Charter Week Date WEEK 3 KEY CONCEPTS ▪ Unit 3 – Project Management Practices o In Unit 3, we will explore and discuss PM practices, including the project lifecycle, best practices, project charters and the foundational concept of The Triple Constraint o When you complete this unit, you will be able to: • Describe the project lifecycle and project best practices • Describe, develop and demonstrate the use of a project charter • Describe and apply the triple constraint of project management REQUIRED PREPARATION • PMBOK 4, 5.1, 6.1, 7.1 Instructional Plan – MGMT8680 – S2020 EVALUATION Assessment • 
DUE: Project Charter Assignment Date • Assigned: None Week Date WEEK 4 KEY CONCEPTS • Unit 4 – Achieving Project Success o In Unit 4, we will explore and discuss the key elements of project success and the best practices of project planning o When you complete this unit, you will be able to ▪ Describe the key elements of project success ▪ Present a project plan based on best practices REQUIRED PREPARATION • PMBOK 8.1, 9.1, 10.1, 11,1, 13,1 EVALUATION Assessment • 
DUE: None Date • Assigned: Project Plan Group Report Week Date WEEK 5 KEY CONCEPTS • Unit 5 – Understanding Service Management o In Unit 5, we will introduce the key concepts of SM, including the ethics and professional conduct of SM and the guiding principles of SM. o When you complete this unit, you will be able to Instructional Plan – MGMT8680 – S2020 ▪ Describe the key concepts of service management ▪ Apply the ethical and professional conduct of service management ▪ Describe the guiding principle of service management REQUIRED PREPARATION • ITIL Chapter 1 & 8 EVALUATION Assessment • 
DUE: Service Management Case Study Reflection Date • Assigned: Project Plan Group Report Week Date WEEK 6 KEY CONCEPTS • Unit 6.1 & 6.2 Service Management Practices o In Unit 6, we will explore and discuss SM practices, such as the roles of SM, various specific practices and SM relationships o When you complete this unit, you will be able to ▪ Explain the roles of service management ▪ Explain service management practices ▪ Explain service management relationships ▪ Assign roles and responsibilities following service management best practices REQUIRED PREPARATION • ITIL Chapter 2 & 3 EVALUATION Assessment • 
DUE: Project Plan Group Report Date • Assigned: Change Management Group Report Instructional Plan – MGMT8680 – S2020 Week Date WEEK 7 KEY CONCEPTS • Units 6.3 & 6.4 Service Management Practices o In Unit 6, we will explore and discuss SM practices, such as the roles of SM, various specific practices and SM relationships o When you complete this unit, you will be able to ▪ Explain the roles of service management ▪ Explain service management practices ▪ Explain service management relationships ▪ Assign roles and responsibilities following service management best practices REQUIRED PREPARATION • ITIL Chapter 4 EVALUATION Assessment • 
DUE: None Date • Assigned: None Week Date STUDENT SUCCESS WEEK Week Date WEEK 8 KEY CONCEPTS • Unit 7 – The Four Dimensions of Service Management Instructional Plan – MGMT8680 – S2020 o In this unit, we will explore and discuss the four dimensions of SM – Organizations & People, Information & Technology, Partners & Suppliers, Value streams and processes. o When you have completed this unit, you will be able to: ▪ Explain the four dimensions of service management ▪ Model the four dimensions of service management REQUIRED PREPARATION • ITIL Chapter 5 EVALUATION Assessment • 
DUE: None Date • Assigned: None Week Date WEEK 9 KEY CONCEPTS • Unit 8 – Service Value o In Unit 8, we will introduce the concept of Service Value and explore and discuss service value chains and service chain practices o When you have completed this unit, you will be able to: ▪ Explain service value chain activities ▪ Model service chain practices REQUIRED PREPARATION • ITIL Chapters 6 & 10 EVALUATION Assessment • 
DUE: None Date • Assigned: None Instructional Plan – MGMT8680 – S2020 Week Date WEEK 10 KEY CONCEPTS • Units 9.1 & 9.2 Delivering Service Management o In Unit 9, we will discuss and explore general, service and technical management practices o When you have completed this unit, you will be able to ▪ Compare general management practices ▪ Compare service management practices ▪ Compare technical management practices ▪ Explain the difference between general, service and technical management practice REQUIRED PREPARATION • ITIL Chapters 12 & 13 EVALUATION Assessment • 
DUE: Change Management Group Report Date • Assigned: Change Management Group Presentation Week Date WEEK 11 KEY CONCEPTS • Units 9.3 & 9.4 Delivering Service Management o In Unit 9, we will discuss and explore general, service and technical management practices o When you have completed this unit, you will be able to ▪ Compare general management practices ▪ Compare service management practices ▪ Compare technical management practices Instructional Plan – MGMT8680 – S2020 ▪ Explain the difference between general, service and technical management practice REQUIRED PREPARATION • ITIL Chapter 14 EVALUATION Assessment • 
DUE: None Date • Assigned: None Week Date WEEK 12 KEY CONCEPTS • Unit 10: Managing Organizational Change o In unit 10, we will discuss and explore how to manage organization change, with a focus on the integration of PM and SM practices as well as considering the human factors of organizational change. o When you complete this unit, you will be able to ▪ Describe and discuss the human factors of organizational change ▪ Present a change management plan that include both project management and service management REQUIRED PREPARATION • ITIL And OC - Chapters 2, 3, 4 & 5 EVALUATION Assessment • 
DUE: None Date • Assigned: None Instructional Plan – MGMT8680 – S2020 Week Date WEEK 13 KEY CONCEPTS • Summative Review o We will review the material of this course together to prepare and support your success of your final group presentation REQUIRED PREPARATION • Self-Directed Review of all course material EVALUATION Assessment • 
DUE: None Date • Assigned: None Week Date WEEK 14 KEY CONCEPTS • FINAL PRESENTATIONS o We will have our final group presentations for our final assessment of the course. REQUIRED PREPARATION • N/A EVALUATION Assessment • 
DUE: Change Management Group Presentation Date • Assigned: None Instructional Plan – MGMT8680 – S2020 Please Note: The Instructional Plan is subject to change with advance notice. Evaluation dates will not be changed without consultation with students and the Chair of the Program. ITIL 4 in 10 minutes A quickstart guide to the latest ITSM framework STARTYou want to learn more about ITIL 4 You could start with the 212 pages of the ITIL Foundation: ITIL 4 Edition book. Or, if you have more exciting plans for the weekend, read this ebook to get a quick appreciation of ITIL 4, the latest version of the most popular global IT service management (ITSM) best practice framework. See how ITIL 4 can help your organization. 2So, what is ITIL? This might hurt your head for a moment, but it does get easier. Quick tip ITIL is defined by the ITIL 4 Foundation book as: “Best-practice guidance for IT service management.” ITIL hasn’t officially been referred to as the “IT Infrastructure That begs the question, What is IT service management (ITSM)? Library” since the publication of ITIL v3 in 2007; however, you’ll The ITIL 4 Glossary defines ITSM broadly as: probably still see this obsolete term in use. “A set of specialized organizational capabilities for enabling value for customers in the form of services.” And a service is defined as: “A means of enabling value co-creation by facilitating outcomes that customers want to achieve, without the customer having to manage specific costs and risks.” We did warn you about the head-hurting thing. The plain-English translation. Hopefully, the following helps—you can think of ITSM as: “Improving business performance and outcomes through better IT delivery and support practices” with ITIL proven best practice guidance on how to do that. 3How does ITIL work? Between 2007 and 2018, ITIL v3 involved something called “the service lifecycle,” which was comprised of 26 ITSM processes and four functions. The processes were grouped across five areas: • Service strategy • Service design • Service transition • Service operation • Continual service improvement (CSI). ITIL v3 (2011 Edition) has now been superseded by ITIL 4 and its new approach to service management. Yet, it’s worth noting these older terms as they’ll no doubt come up in other helpful ITIL content you might access. There are other differences between ITIL v3 and ITIL 4, with the key changes including: • ITIL 4 focuses on service management, not just ITSM, and on the co-creation of value • There’s now an ITIL service value system and service value chain • The ITIL v3 processes are now ITIL 4 management practices. The latter two bullets are covered in the following section. 4The ITIL service value system Understanding how ITIL 4 fits together starts with the service value “The ITIL service value system describes how all the components and system—this is the means for turning demand and opportunities into activities of the organization work together as a system to enable stakeholder value. Or, as the ITIL Foundation book explains it, value creation.” The ITIL service value system is comprised of five elements: Guiding principles 1. The service value chain 2. Management practices Governance 3. Governance 4. Guiding principles Opportunity Service value chain Value /demand 5. Continual improvement (no longer continual service improvement). Practices Continual improvement Source: AXELOS, “ITIL Foundation: ITIL 4 Edition” (2019) 5Quick tip The aforementioned ITIL v3 service lifecycle can be replicated in the ITIL 4 service value chain as follows: Engage – Plan – Design and transition – Obtain/build – Design and transition – Deliver and support – Improve According to the ITIL Foundation book, the service value chain, at value realization through the creation and management of products the heart of the service value system, is “an operating model which and services.” These key activities are shown in the next diagram. outlines the key activities required to respond to demand and facilitate The six activities with the ITIL service value chain are: Plan 1. Plan–to ensure a shared understanding of what your service-provider organization needs to achieve, plus how. Design & transition 2. Engage–the engagement with stakeholders to achieve an understanding of their needs and to ensure that these needs are being met. Demand Value Engage Product & 3. Design and transition–the creation of new/changed Deliver & services Obtain/build support services that meet stakeholder expectations across quality, cost, and time to market. 4. Obtain/build–the creation of service components, also ensuring that they’re available when and where they’re needed and that agreed specifications are met. Improve 5. Deliver and support–to ensure that services are delivered and supported according to agreed stakeholder specifications and expectations. 6. Improve–to ensure the continual improvement of Source: AXELOS, “ITIL Foundation: ITIL 4 Edition” (2019) products, services, and practices 6ITIL 4 practices The ITIL 4 Foundation book defines a management practice as “…a Quick tips set of organizational resources designed for performing work or accomplishing an objective. The origins of the practices are as follows: 1. ITIL is merely guidance and not an industry standard. It’s intended for organizations to take and use as needed • General management practices have been adopted and adapted via an adopt and adapt approach. for service management from general business management domains. 2. While the below and other ITIL 4 practices might appear new, your organization will likely already be doing some • Service management practices have been developed in service of the best practices (even if improvements can be made management and ITSM industries. to the status quo). • Technical management practices have been adapted from technology management domains for service management purposes by expanding or shifting their focus from technology solutions to IT services.” The full set of 34 ITIL 4 management practices are listed in the table on the next page. 7The full set of 34 ITIL 4 management practices General Management Practices Service Management Practices Technical Management Practices Architecture management Availability management Deployment management Continual improvement Business analysis Infrastructure and platform management Information security management Capacity and performance management Software development and management Knowledge management Change control Measurement and reporting Incident management Organizational change management IT asset management Portfolio management Monitoring and event management Project management Problem management Relationship management Release management Risk management Service catalog management Service financial management Service configuration management Strategy management Service continuity management Supplier management Service design Workforce and talent management Service desk Service level management Some of the most commonly adopted ITIL v3 processes, now ITIL 4 practices, are explained in the next section. 8Commonly-adopted ITIL management practices The following table is based on ITIL v3 process adoption levels. All practice purpose descriptions are taken from the ITIL 4 Foundation book. Management Practice Purpose Availability management To ensure that services deliver agreed levels of availability to meet the needs of customers and users Capacity and performance management To ensure that services achieve agreed and expected performance, satisfying current and future demand in a cost-effective way Change control To maximize the number of successful changes by ensuring that risks have been properly assessed through to managing the change schedule Continual improvement To align practices and services with changing business needs through the ongoing improvement of products, services, and practices Deployment management To move new or changed hardware, software, documentation, processes, or any other component to live environments Incident management To minimize the negative impact of incidents by restoring normal service operation as quickly as possible Knowledge management To maintain and improve the effective, efficient, and convenient use of information and knowledge across the organization Monitoring and event management To systematically observe services and service components as well as record and report selected changes of state identified as events Portfolio management To ensure that the organization has the right mix of programs, projects, products, and services to execute the organization’s strategy Problem management To reduce the likelihood and impact of incidents by identifying causes of incidents as well as managing workarounds and known errors Release management To make new and changed services and features available for use To provide a single source of consistent information on all services and service offerings and to ensure that it is available to the Service catalog management relevant audience Service configuration management To ensure that accurate and reliable information about the configuration of services, and the configuration items that support them, is available Service desk To capture demand for incident resolution and service requests. It should also be the entry point and single point of contact for users To support the organization’s strategies and plans for service management by ensuring that financial resources and investments Service financial management are used effectively Service level management To set clear business-based targets for service levels and to ensure that delivery of services is properly monitored and managed against them Service request management To support the agreed quality of a service by handling all pre-defined, user-initiated service requests in an effective and user-friendly manner 9Next steps Are you ready to help your organization adopt ITIL to achieve improved IT service delivery and business operations as well as better outcomes? ITIL best practice has already improved IT service delivery and support capabilities for tens of thousands of companies worldwide. Now, it’s your turn. LEARN MORE About ServiceNow Corporate IT organizations in pursuit of best practice IT automation look to frameworks like ITIL for guidance on improving business performance and outcomes through better IT delivery and support practices. ServiceNow ITSM delivers on that promise while increasing IT productivity and achieving new insights by consolidating fragmented IT tools to the most innovative ITSM solution. © 2019 ServiceNow, Inc. All rights reserved. ServiceNow, the ServiceNow logo, Now, Now Platform, and other ServiceNow marks are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of ServiceNow, Inc. in the United States and/or other countries. Other company and product names may be trademarks of the respective companies with which they are associated. BACK SN-ITIL-410MIN-062019 Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct CHAPTER 1. VISION AND APPLICABILITY 1.1 Vision and Purpose As practitioners of project management, we are committed to doing what is right and honorable. We set high standards for ourselves and we aspire to meet these standards in all aspects of our lives—at work, at home, and in service to our profession. This Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct describes the expectations that we have of ourselves and our fellow practitioners in the global project management community. It articulates the ideals to which we aspire as well as the behaviors that are mandatory in our professional and volunteer roles. The purpose of this Code is to instill confidence in the project management profession and to help an individual become a better practitioner. We do this by establishing a profession-wide understanding of appropriate behavior. We believe that the credibility and reputation of the project management profession is shaped by the collective conduct of individual practitioners. We believe that we can advance our profession, both individually and collectively, by embracing this Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct. We also believe that this Code will assist us in making wise decisions, particularly when faced with difficult situations where we may be asked to compromise our integrity or our values. Our hope is that this Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct will serve as a catalyst for others to study, deliberate, and write about ethics and values. Further, we hope that this Code will ultimately be used to build upon and evolve our profession. 1.2 Persons to Whom the Code Applies The Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct applies to: 1.2.1 All PMI members 1.2.2 Individuals who are not members of PMI but meet one or more of the following criteria: .1 Non-members who hold a PMI certification .2 Non-members who apply to commence a PMI certification process .3 Non-members who serve PMI in a volunteer capacity. Comment: Those holding a Project Management Institute (PMI®) credential (whether members or not) were previously held accountable to the Project Management Professional (PMP®) or Certified Associate in Project Management (CAPM®) Code of Professional Conduct and continue to be held accountable to the PMI Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct. In the past, PMI also had separate ethics standards for members and for credentialed individuals. Stakeholders who contributed input to develop this Code concluded that having multiple codes was undesirable and that everyone should be held to one high standard. Therefore, this Code is applicable to both PMI members and individuals who have applied for or received a credential from PMI, regardless of their membership in PMI. 1 of 81.3 Structure of the Code The Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct is divided into sections that contain standards of conduct which are aligned with the four values that were identified as most important to the project management community. Some sections of this Code include comments. Comments are not mandatory parts of the Code, but provide examples and other clarification. Finally, a glossary can be found at the end of the standard. The glossary defines words and phrases used in the Code. For convenience, those terms defined in the glossary are underlined in the text of the Code. 1.4 Values that Support this Code Practitioners from the global project management community were asked to identify the values that formed the basis of their decision making and guided their actions. The values that the global project management community defined as most important were: responsibility, respect, fairness, and honesty. This Code affirms these four values as its foundation. 1.5 Aspirational and Mandatory Conduct Each section of the Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct includes both aspirational standards and mandatory standards. The aspirational standards describe the conduct that we strive to uphold as practitioners. Although adherence to the aspirational standards is not easily measured, conducting ourselves in accordance with these is an expectation that we have of ourselves as professionals—it is not optional. The mandatory standards establish firm requirements, and in some cases, limit or prohibit practitioner behavior. Practitioners who do not conduct themselves in accordance with these standards will be subject to disciplinary procedures before PMI’s Ethics Review Committee. Comment: The conduct covered under the aspirational standards and conduct covered under the mandatory standards are not mutually exclusive; that is, one specific act or omission could violate both aspirational and mandatory standards. CHAPTER 2. RESPONSIBILITY 2.1 Description of Responsibility Responsibility is our duty to take ownership for the decisions we make or fail to make, the actions we take or fail to take, and the consequences that result. 2.2 Responsibility: Aspirational Standards As practitioners in the global project management community: 2.2.1 We make decisions and take actions based on the best interests of society, public safety, and the environment. 2.2.2 We accept only those assignments that are consistent with our background, experience, skills, and qualifications. Comment: Where developmental or stretch assignments are being considered, we ensure that key stakeholders receive timely and complete information regarding the gaps in our qualifications so that they may make informed decisions regarding our suitability for a particular assignment. 2 of 8In the case of a contracting arrangement, we only bid on work that our organization is qualified to perform and we assign only qualified individuals to perform the work. 2.2.3 We fulfill the commitments that we undertake – we do what we say we will do. 2.2.4 When we make errors or omissions, we take ownership and make corrections promptly. When we discover errors or omissions caused by others, we communicate them to the appropriate body as soon they are discovered. We accept accountability for any issues resulting from our errors or omissions and any resulting consequences. 2.2.5 We protect proprietary or confidential information that has been entrusted to us. 2.2.6 We uphold this Code and hold each other accountable to it. 2.3 Responsibility: Mandatory Standards As practitioners in the global project management community, we require the following of ourselves and our fellow practitioners: Regulations and Legal Requirements 2.3.1 We inform ourselves and uphold the policies, rules, regulations and laws that govern our work, professional, and volunteer activities. 2.3.2 We report unethical or illegal conduct to appropriate management and, if necessary, to those affected by the conduct. Comment: These provisions have several implications. Specifically, we do not engage in any illegal behavior, including but not limited to: theft, fraud, corruption, embezzlement, or bribery. Further, we do not take or abuse the property of others, including intellectual property, nor do we engage in slander or libel. In focus groups conducted with practitioners around the globe, these types of illegal behaviors were mentioned as being problematic. As practitioners and representatives of our profession, we do not condone or assist others in engaging in illegal behavior. We report any illegal or unethical conduct. Reporting is not easy and we recognize that it may have negative consequences. Since recent corporate scandals, many organizations have adopted policies to protect employees who reveal the truth about illegal or unethical activities. Some governments have also adopted legislation to protect employees who come forward with the truth. Ethics Complaints 2.3.3 We bring violations of this Code to the attention of the appropriate body for resolution. 2.3.4 We only file ethics complaints when they are substantiated by facts. Comment: These provisions have several implications. We cooperate with PMI concerning ethics violations and the collection of related information whether we are a complainant or a respondent. We also abstain from accusing others of ethical misconduct when we do not have all the facts. Further, we pursue disciplinary action against individuals who knowingly make false allegations against others. 2.3.5 We pursue disciplinary action against an individual who retaliates against a person raising ethics concerns. 3 of 8CHAPTER 3. RESPECT 3.1 Description of Respect Respect is our duty to show a high regard for ourselves, others, and the resources entrusted to us. Resources entrusted to us may include people, money, reputation, the safety of others, and natural or environmental resources. An environment of respect engenders trust, confidence, and performance excellence by fostering mutual cooperation—an environment where diverse perspectives and views are encouraged and valued. 3.2 Respect: Aspirational Standards As practitioners in the global project management community: 3.2.1 We inform ourselves about the norms and customs of others and avoid engaging in behaviors they might consider disrespectful. 3.2.2 We listen to others’ points of view, seeking to understand them. 3.2.3 We approach directly those persons with whom we have a conflict or disagreement. 3.2.4 We conduct ourselves in a professional manner, even when it is not reciprocated. Comment: An implication of these provisions is that we avoid engaging in gossip and avoid making negative remarks to undermine another person’s reputation. We also have a duty under this Code to confront others who engage in these types of behaviors. 3.3 Respect: Mandatory Standards As practitioners in the global project management community, we require the following of ourselves and our fellow practitioners: 3.3.1 We negotiate in good faith. 3.3.2 We do not exercise the power of our expertise or position to influence the decisions or actions of others in order to benefit personally at their expense. 3.3.3 We do not act in an abusive manner toward others. 3.3.4 We respect the property rights of others. CHAPTER 4. FAIRNESS 4.1 Description of Fairness Fairness is our duty to make decisions and act impartially and objectively. Our conduct must be free from competing self interest, prejudice, and favoritism. 4 of 84.2 Fairness: Aspirational Standards As practitioners in the global project management community: 4.2.1 We demonstrate transparency in our decision-making process. 4.2.2 We constantly reexamine our impartiality and objectivity, taking corrective action as appropriate. Comment: Research with practitioners indicated that the subject of conflicts of interest is one of the most challenging faced by our profession. One of the biggest problems practitioners report is not recognizing when we have conflicted loyalties and recognizing when we are inadvertently placing ourselves or others in a conflict-of-interest situation. We as practitioners must proactively search for potential conflicts and help each other by highlighting each other’s potential conflicts of interest and insisting that they be resolved. 4.2.3 We provide equal access to information to those who are authorized to have that information. 4.2.4 We make opportunities equally available to qualified candidates. Comment: An implication of these provisions is, in the case of a contracting arrangement, we provide equal access to information during the bidding process. 4.3 Fairness: Mandatory Standards As practitioners in the global project management community, we require the following of ourselves and our fellow practitioners: Conflict of Interest Situations 4.3.1 We proactively and fully disclose any real or potential conflicts of interest to the appropriate stakeholders. 4.3.2 When we realize that we have a real or potential conflict of interest, we refrain from engaging in the decision- making process or otherwise attempting to influence outcomes, unless or until: we have made full disclosure to the affected stakeholders; we have an approved mitigation plan; and we have obtained the consent of the stakeholders to proceed. Comment: A conflict of interest occurs when we are in a position to influence decisions or other outcomes on behalf of one party when such decisions or outcomes could affect one or more other parties with which we have competing loyalties. For example, when we are acting as an employee, we have a duty of loyalty to our employer. When we are acting as a PMI volunteer, we have a duty of loyalty to the Project Management Institute. We must recognize these divergent interests and refrain from influencing decisions when we have a conflict of interest. Further, even if we believe that we can set aside our divided loyalties and make decisions impartially, we treat the appearance of a conflict of interest as a conflict of interest and follow the provisions described in the Code. Favoritism and Discrimination 4.3.3 We do not hire or fire, reward or punish, or award or deny contracts based on personal considerations, including but not limited to, favoritism, nepotism, or bribery. 4.3.4 We do not discriminate against others based on, but not limited to, gender, race, age, religion, disability, nationality, or sexual orientation. 4.3.5 We apply the rules of the organization (employer, Project Management Institute, or other group) without favoritism or prejudice. 5 of 8CHAPTER 5. HONESTY 5.1 Description of Honesty Honesty is our duty to understand the truth and act in a truthful manner both in our communications and in our conduct. 5.2 Honesty: Aspirational Standards As practitioners in the global project management community: 5.2.1 We earnestly seek to understand the truth. 5.2.2 We are truthful in our communications and in our conduct. 5.2.3 We provide accurate information in a timely manner. Comment: An implication of these provisions is that we take appropriate steps to ensure that the information we are basing our decisions upon or providing to others is accurate, reliable, and timely. This includes having the courage to share bad news even when it may be poorly received. Also, when outcomes are negative, we avoid burying information or shifting blame to others. When outcomes are positive, we avoid taking credit for the achievements of others. These provisions reinforce our commitment to be both honest and responsible. 5.2.4 We make commitments and promises, implied or explicit, in good faith. 5.2.5 We strive to create an environment in which others feel safe to tell the truth. 5.3 Honesty: Mandatory Standards As practitioners in the global project management community, we require the following of ourselves and our fellow practitioners: 5.3.1 We do not engage in or condone behavior that is designed to deceive others, including but not limited to, making misleading or false statements, stating half-truths, providing information out of context or withholding information that, if known, would render our statements as misleading or incomplete. 5.3.2 We do not engage in dishonest behavior with the intention of personal gain or at the expense of another. Comment: The aspirational standards exhort us to be truthful. Half-truths and non-disclosures intended to mislead stakeholders are as unprofessional as affirmatively making misrepresentations. We develop credibility by providing complete and accurate information. 6 of 8APPENDIX A A.1 History of this Standard PMI’s vision of project management as an independent profession drove our early work in ethics. In 1981, the PMI Board of Directors formed an Ethics, Standards and Accreditation Group. One task required the group to deliberate on the need for a code of ethics for the profession. The team’s report contained the first documented PMI discussion of ethics for the project management profession. This report was submitted to the PMI Board of Directors in August 1982 and published as a supplement to the August 1983 Project Management Quarterly. In the late 1980’s, this standard evolved to become the Ethics Standard for the Project Management Professional (PMP®). In 1997, the PMI Board determined the need for a member code of ethics. The PMI Board formed the Ethics Policy Documentation Committee to draft and publish an ethics standard for PMI’s membership. The Board approved the new Member Code of Ethics in October 1998. This was followed by Board approval of the Member Case Procedures in January 1999, which provided a process for the submission of an ethics complaint and a determination as to whether a violation had occurred. Since the 1998 Code was adopted, many dramatic changes have occurred within PMI and the business world. PMI membership has grown significantly. A great deal of growth has also occurred in regions outside North America. In the business world, ethics scandals have caused the downfall of global corporations and non-profits, causing public outrage and sparking increased government regulations. Globalization has brought economies closer together but has caused a realization that our practice of ethics may differ from culture to culture. The rapid, continuing pace of technological change has provided new opportunities, but has also introduced new challenges, including new ethical dilemmas. For these reasons, in 2003 the PMI Board of Directors called for the reexamination of our codes of ethics. In 2004, the PMI Board commissioned the Ethics Standards Review Committee [ESRC] to review the codes of ethics and develop a process for revising the codes. The ESRC developed processes that would encourage active participation by the global project management community. In 2005, the PMI Board approved the processes for revising the code, agreeing that global participation by the project management community was paramount. In 2005, the Board also commissioned the Ethics Standards Development Committee to carry out the Board-approved process and deliver the revised code by the end of 2006. This Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct was approved by the PMI Board of Directors in October 2006. A.2 Process Used to Create This Standard The first step by the Ethics Standards Development Committee [ESDC] in the development of this Code was to understand the ethical issues facing the project management community and to understand the values and viewpoints of practitioners from all regions of the globe. This was accomplished by a variety of mechanisms including focus group discussions and two internet surveys involving practitioners, members, volunteers, and people holding a PMI certification. Additionally, the team analyzed the ethics codes of 24 non-profit associations from various regions of the world, researched best practices in the development of ethics standards, and explored the ethics-related tenets of PMI’s strategic plan. This extensive research conducted by the ESDC provided the backdrop for developing the exposure draft of the PMI Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct. The exposure draft was circulated to the global project management community for comment. The rigorous, standards development processes established by the American National Standards Institute were followed during the development of the Code because these processes were used for 7 of 8PMI technical standard development projects and were deemed to represent the best practices for obtaining and adjudicating stakeholder feedback to the exposure draft. The result of this effort is a Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct that not only describes the ethical values to which the global project management community aspires, but also addresses the specific conduct that is mandatory for every individual bound by this Code. Violations of the PMI Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct may result in sanctions by PMI under the ethics Case Procedures. The ESDC learned that as practitioners of project management, our community takes its commitment to ethics very seriously and we hold ourselves and our peers in the global project management community accountable to conduct ourselves in accordance with the provisions of this Code. APPENDIX B B.1 Glossary Abusive Manner. Conduct that results in physical harm or creates intense feelings of fear, humiliation, manipulation, or exploitation in another person. Conflict of Interest. A situation that arises when a practitioner of project management is faced with making a decision or doing some act that will benefit the practitioner or another person or organization to which the practitioner owes a duty of loyalty and at the same time will harm another person or organization to which the practitioner owes a similar duty of loyalty. The only way practitioners can resolve conflicting duties is to disclose the conflict to those affected and allow them to make the decision about how the practitioner should proceed. Duty of Loyalty. A person’s responsibility, legal or moral, to promote the best interest of an organization or other person with whom they are affiliated. Project Management Institute (PMI). The totality of the Project Management Institute, including its committees, groups, and chartered components such as chapters, colleges, and specific interest groups. PMI Member. A person who has joined the Project Management Institute as a member. PMI-Sponsored Activities. Activities that include, but are not limited to, participation on a PMI Member Advisory Group, PMI standard development team, or another PMI working group or committee. This also includes activities engaged in under the auspices of a chartered PMI component organization—whether it is in a leadership role in the component or another type of component educational activity or event. Practitioner. A person engaged in an activity that contributes to the management of a project, portfolio, or program, as part of the project management profession. PMI Volunteer. A person who participates in PMI-sponsored activities, whether a member of the Project Management Institute or not. 8 of 8 Project Management Practices MGMT -8680 Project Management Integration - Unit 3.1Unit 3 – Project Management Practices • Key Concepts • In Unit 3 you will be introduced to Project Integration (3.1) and managing the Triple Constraint (3.2) • When you complete this unit you will be able to: • Describe project integration and project best practices • Describe, develop and demonstrate the use of a project charter • Describe and apply the triple constraint of project management • Unit 3 - Topics 1. Project Integration 2. Managing the Triple Constraint Resources for this unit • PMBOK Guide • Part 1.4 Project Integration Management • Part 1.5 + 1.5.1 Plan Scope Management • Part 1.6 + 1.6.1 Plan Schedule Management • Part 1.7 + 1.7.1 Plan Cost Management Project Management Integration Unit 3.1 4Project Integration Management Project Integration Management Project Integration Management includes the processes and activities to identify, define, combine, unify, and coordinate the various processes and project management activities within the Project Management Process Group Resource allocation, Balancing competing demands, Project Integration Examining any alternative approaches, Choices Tailoring the processes to meet the project objectives, and Managing the interdependencies among the Project Management Knowledge AreasKey Concepts • Project Management Integration is a key project manager function • This is the core of project management – understanding, bringing together, directing and combining all the elements of the project • This work is typically iterative within the project and the project process groups Ensuring that the deliverable due dates of the product, service, or result; project life Ensuring cycle; and the benefits management plan are aligned; Providing Providing a project management plan to achieve the project objectives; Ensuring the creation and the use of the appropriate knowledge to and from the Ensuring Project project as necessary; Managing the performance and changes of the activities in the project management Managing Integration plan; Making Making integrated decisions regarding key changes impacting the project; Activites Measuring and Measuring and monitoring the project's progress and taking appropriate action to monitoring meet project objectives; Collecting data on the results achieved, analyzing the data to obtain information, Collecting and communicating this information to relevant stakeholders; Completing all the work of the project and formally closing each phase, contract, Completing and the project as a whole; and Managing Managing phase transitions when necessary.Project life Development cycle life cycle Management Knowledge approaches management Project Tailoring Change Governance Lessons Benefits learned IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo MGMT-8680 11Project Integration Management • Develop Project Charter • Develop Project Management Plan • Direct and Manage Project Work • Manage Project Knowledge • Monitor and Control Project Work • Perform Integration Change Control • Close Project or Phase Develop Project Charter Develop Project Charter The process of developing a document that formally authorizes the existence of a project and provides the project manager with the authority to apply organizational resources to project activities. Project Charter Flow Chart IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo 16Business Documents Agreements Project Charter Inputs Enterprise Environmental Factors Organizational Process Assets Business Documents • Business case. The approved business case, or similar, is the business document most commonly used to create the project charter. Market demand • Organizational need • Customer request • Technological advance • Legal requirement • Ecological impacts • Social need IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo MGMT-8680 18Expert Judgement Project Data Gathering Charter Tools and Techniques Interpersonal and Team Skills Meetings IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo MGMT-8680 19Measurable project High-level Project purpose objectives and related requirements success criteria High-level project Project description, Summary milestone Overall project risk boundaries, and key schedule deliverables Charter Outputs Preapproved financial Project approval Key stakeholder list resources requirements Assigned project Name and authority of manager, the sponsor or other Project exit responsibility, and person(s) authorizing authority level the project charter. Develop Project Management Plan Develop Project Management Plan The process of defining, preparing, and coordinating all plan components and consolidating them into an integrated project management plan. Project Plan Scope PROJECT PLANS CAN BE DETAILED OR AIM FOR SUFFICIENCY – BE ROBUST, IT IS BENEFICIAL TO HAVE BASELINE SUMMARY NOT COMPLETE PLANNING TO COMPARE COST, SCOPE AND SCHEDULE WITH PAST PROJECTS Project Charter Other Processes Project Plan Inputs Enterprise Environmental Factors Organizational Process Assets Expert Judgement Project Plan Data Gathering Tools and Techniques Interpersonal and Team Skills Meetings IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo MGMT-8680 27Project Plan Outputs Project • This is the key output Management • Can include a wide range of subsidiary plans Plan • Baselines Other outputs • Additional Components Scope Requirements Schedule management management management plan plan plan Cost Quality Resource management management management Subsidiary plan plan plan Plans Communications Risk Procurement management management management plan plan plan Stakeholder engagement plan Project Management Plan Project Documents 1. Scope management plan 1. Activity attributes 19. Quality control measurements 2. Requirements management plan 2. Activity list 20. Quality metrics 3. Schedule management plan 3. Assumption log 21. Quality report 4. Cost management plan 4. Basis of estimates 22. Requirements documentation 5. Quality management plan 5. Change log 23. Requirements traceability matrix 6. Resource management plan 6. Cost estimates 24. Resource breakdown structure 7. Communications management plan 7. Cost forecasts 25. Resource calendars 8. Risk management plan 8. Duration estimates 26. Resource requirements 9. Procurement management plan 9. Issue log 27. Risk register 10. Stakeholder engagement plan 10. Lessons learned register 28. Risk report 11. Change management plan 11. Milestone list 29. Schedule data 12. Configuration management plan 12. Physical resource assignments 30. Schedule forecasts 13. Scope baseline 13. Project calendars 31. Stakeholder register 14. Schedule baseline 14. Project communications 32. Team charter 15. Cost baseline 15. Project schedule 33. Test and evaluation documents 16. Performance measurement baseline 16. Project schedule network diagram 17. Project life cycle description 17. Project scope statement 18. Development approach 18. Project team assignments Direct and Manage Project Work Direct and Manage Project Work The process of leading and performing the work defined in the project management plan and implementing approved changes to achieve the project's objectives. Direct & Manage Project Work IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo 34Project Documents Direct and Approved Change Requests Manage Project Work Enterprise Environmental Factors Inputs Organizational Process Assets Project Documents CHANGE LOG. LESSONS LEARNED MILESTONE LIST PROJECT PROJECT SCHEDULE REGISTER COMMUNICATIONS REQUIREMENTS RISK REGISTER RISK REPORT TRACEABILITY MATRIX Expert Judgement Direct and Manage Project Management Project Work Information System Tools and Techniques Meetings IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo MGMT-8680 37Direct and Manage Project Work Outputs Work Change Deliverables Performance Issue Log Request Data Project Project Plan Document OPA Updates Updates Updates Manage Project Knowledge Manage Project Knowledge The process of using existing knowledge and creating new knowledge to achieve the project's objectives and contribute to organizational learning. Manage Project Knowledge Flow Chart IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo 42Project Management Plan Project Documents Manage Project Deliverables Knowledge Inputs EFFs OPAs Expert Judgement Manage Project Knowledge Management Knowledge Tools and Information Management Techniques Interpersonal and Team Skills IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo MGMT-8680 44Manage Project Knowledge Outputs LESSONS LEARNED PROJECT MANAGEMENT OPA UPDATES REGISTER PLAN UPDATES Monitor and Control Project Work Monitor and Control Project Work The process of tracking, reviewing, and reporting overall progress to meet the performance objectives defined in the project management plan. Monitor and Control Project Work Flow Chart IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo 49Project Management Plan Work Performance Information Monitor and Control Agreements Project Inputs EFFs OPAs Expert Judgement Monitor and Control Data Analysis Project Tools and Decision Making Techniques Meetings IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo MGMT-8680 51Monitor and Control Project Work Outputs Work performance Change requests Project Plan Project Document reports Updates Updates Perform Integration Change Control Perform Integration Change Control The process of reviewing all change requests; approving changes and managing changes to deliverables, organizational process assets, project documents, and the project management plan; and communicating the decisions. Perform Integrated Change Control Flow Chart IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo 56Project Management Plan Project Documents Perform Integration Work Performance Reports Change Change Requests Control Inputs EFFs OPAs Expert Judgement Perform Change Control Tools Integration Change Data Analysis Control Tools and Decision Making Techniques Meetings IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo MGMT-8680 58Change Control Board • Referred to a CCB or CAB (Change Advisory Board) • Standard form of change governance • This group is responsible for • Reviewing change requests • Assess the impact of potential changes • Review alternatives • Approving, rejecting or deferring change requests • Communicate decision to the change requestor Approved Change Requests Perform Integration Change Project Plan Updates Control Outputs Project Document Updates IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo MGMT-8680 60Close Project or Phase Close Project or Phase The process of finalizing all activities for the project, phase, or contract. Close Project or Phase Flow Chart IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo 64Closing Actions & Activities Making certain that all Confirming the delivery and documents and deliverables are Ensuring that all costs are Dealing with excess project formal acceptance of Closing project accounts; Reassigning personnel; up-to-date and that all issues charged to the project; material; deliverables by the customer; are resolved; Reallocating project facilities, Elaborating the final project Archiving such information for Confirming the formal Updating records to reflect final equipment, and other reports as required by future use.Collect project or Audit project success or failure, acceptance of the seller's work, results, and resources; and organizational policies. phase records, Collecting any suggestions for Transfer the project's products, improving or updating the Manage knowledge sharing and Archive project information for services, or results to the next policies and procedures of the Measuring stakeholder Identify lessons learned, transfer, future use by the organization. phase or to production and/or organization, and sending them satisfaction. operations. to the appropriate organizational unit. Project Charter Project Management Plan Project Documents Close Project Accepted Deliverables or Phase Business Documents Inputs Agreements Procurement Documentation OPAs Expert Judgement Close Project or Phase Tools Data Analysis and Techniques Meetings IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo MGMT-8680 67Success vs. Failure • Be very clear on what a successful project looks like – it will be different for every project • Be honest and authentic in measuring success vs. failure • Strive to embrace failure as a learning opportunity Project Document Updates Close Project Final Product, Service or Result Transition or Phase Outputs Final Report OPA Updates IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo MGMT-8680 69Final Report Quality objectives, the criteria Scope objectives, the criteria used used to evaluate the project and Summary level description of the to evaluate the scope, and product quality, the verification project or phase. evidence that the completion and actual milestone delivery criteria were met. dates, and reasons for variances. Schedule objectives including Cost objectives, including the Summary of the validation whether results achieved the acceptable cost range, actual costs, information for the final product, benefits that the project was and reasons for any variances. service, or result. undertaken to address Summary of how the final product, Summary of any risks or issues service, or result achieved the encountered on the project and business needs identified in the how they were addressed. business plan Unit 3.1 - Questions? Achieving Project Success MGMT -8680 Unit 4Unit 4 – Achieving Project Success • Key Concepts • In Unit 4 you will be introduced to Managing: Project Quality, Project Resources, Project Risk and Project Communications • When you complete this unit you will be able to: • Describe the key elements of project success • Present a project plan based on best practices • Unit 4 - Topics 1. Managing Project Quality 2. Managing Project Resources 3. Managing Project Risk 4. Managing Project Communications Resources for this unit • PMBOK Guide • Part 1.8 Project Quality Management Intro • 1.8.2 Manage Quality • Part 1.9 Project Resource Management • 1.9.5 Manage Team • Part 1.11 Project Risk Management • + 1.11.2 Identify Risks • Part 1.10 Project Communications Management • 1.10.2 Manage Communications • 1.13 Project Stakeholder Management Project Quality Management Unit 4.1 5Project Quality Management Project Quality Management includes the processes for incorporating the organization's quality policy regarding planning, managing, and controlling project and product quality requirements in order to meet stakeholders’ objectives. Project Quality Management also supports continuous process improvement activities as undertaken on behalf of the performing organization. Project Quality Management • Plan • Manage • Control Quality Project Quality is Universal Quality Key Concepts Deliverables define Quality Preven IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo MGMT-8680 85 Levels of Quality Management Customer Detect & Correct Quality Quality Planning Culture of discovered before delivery Assurance Quality Project Quality Tailoring Policy Compliance & Standards and Continuous Stakeholder Auditing Regulations Compliance Improvement Engagement Agile/Adaptive Environments IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo MGMT-8680 11Manage Quality Manage Quality The process of translating the quality management plan into executable quality activities that incorporate the organization's quality policies into the project. Manage Quality Flow Chart IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo 15Project Management Plan Manage Quality Project Documents Inputs Organizational Process Assets Data Gathering Data Analysis Manage Data Representation Decision Making Quality Tools and Techniques Audits Design For X Quality Improvement Problem Solving Methods IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo MGMT-8680 17Data Representations AFFINITY CAUSE-AND-EFFECT FLOWCHARTS HISTOGRAMS MATRIX DIAGRAMS SCATTER DIAGRAMS DIAGRAMS DIAGRAMS Test and Evaluation Quality Reports Manage Documents Quality Outputs Project Management Change Requests Plan Updates Project Resource Management Unit 4.2 20Project Resource Management The processes to identify, acquire, and manage the resources needed for the successful completion of the project. These processes help ensure that the right resources will be available to the project manager and project team at the right time and place. Project Resource Management • Plan Resources • Estimate Resources • Acquire Resources • Develop Team • Manage Team • Control Resources Project Leadership Project Project Management Resource Key Concepts Team Development Team Culture & Morale IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo MGMT-8680 23Project Resources Tailoring DIVERSITY PHYSICAL INDUSTRY SPECIFIC ACQUISITION OF MANAGEMENT OF LIFE CYCLE LOCATION RESOURCES TEAM MEMBERS TEAM APPROACHES Agile/Adaptive Environments IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo MGMT-8680 25Assignment Matrix • RACI Chart • Responsible • Accountable • Consult • Inform Communication Team Values Guidelines Decision- Conflict Team Charter making criteria Resolution and process Process Meeting Team Guidelines agreemetns Manage Team Manage Team The process of tracking team member performance, providing feedback, resolving issues, and managing team changes to optimize project performance. The key benefit of this process is that it influences team behavior, manages conflict, and resolves issues. Manage Team Flow Chart IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo 37Project Management Plan Project Documents Manage Team Work Performance Reports Inputs Team Performance Assessments Enterprise Environmental Factors Organizational Process Assets Interpersonal & Team Skills Manage Team Project Management Tools and Information System Techniques Meetings IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo MGMT-8680 39Interpersonal & Team Skills CONFLICT DECISION EMOTIONAL INFLUENCING LEADERSHIP MANAGEMENT MAKING INTELLIGENCE Direct and Manage Project Work Outputs Project Change Management Requests Plan Updates Project Documents EEF Updates Updates Project Risk Management Unit 4.3 42Project Risk Management The processes of conducting risk management planning, identification, analysis, response planning, response implementation, and monitoring risk on a project. Constraints and Assumptions Individual Project Risk Project Risk Key Concepts Overall Project Risk Risk Tolerance IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo MGMT-8680 45Project Risk Tailoring PROJECT SIZE PROJECT PROJECT DEVELOPMENT COMPLEXITY IMPORTANCE APPROACH Agile/Adaptive Environments IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo MGMT-8680 47Identify Risks Identify Risks The process of identifying individual project risks as well as sources of overall project risk, and documenting their characteristics Identify Risk Flow Chart IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo 51Project Management Plan Project Documents Identify Risks Agreements Inputs Procurement Documentation EFFs OPAs Expert Judgement Data Gathering Identify Risks Data Analysis Tools and Techniques Interpersonal and Team Skills PESTLE Prompt List TECOP VUCA Meetings IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo MGMT-8680 53SWOT Analysis • Strength • Weakness • Opportunities • Threats IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo MGMT-8680 54Identify Risks Outputs Risk Register Risk Report Project Document Updates Project Communications Managment Unit 4.4 56Project Communication Management The processes necessary to ensure that the information needs of the project and its stakeholders are met through development of artifacts and implementation of activities designed to achieve effective information exchange Communication Mechanism Communication Dimensions Project Communication Key Concepts 5Cs of Communication Communication Skills IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo MGMT-8680 59Project Communication Tailoring STAKEHOLDERS PHYSICAL COMMUNICATION LANGUAGE KNOWLEDGE LOCATION TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT Agile/Adaptive Environments IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo MGMT-8680 61Manage Communications Manage Communications The process of ensuring timely and appropriate collection, creation, distribution, storage, retrieval, management, monitoring, and the ultimate disposition of project information. Manage Communications Flow Chart IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo 65Communication Techniques Sender- Choice of Meeting Receiver Writing Style Media Management Model Active Presentations Facilitation Listening Project Management Plan Project Documents Manage Communications Work Performance Reports Inputs Enterprise Environmental Factors Organizational Process Assets Communication Technology Communication Methods Manage Communication Skills Communications Tools and Project Management Information System Techniques Project Reporting Interpersonal and Team Skills IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo MGMT-8680 68Project Communications Project Management Plan Updates Manage Communications Outputs Project Document Updates OPA Updates IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo MGMT-8680 69Project Stakeholder Management Project Stakeholder Management The processes required to identify the people, groups, or organizations that could impact or be impacted by the project, to analyze stakeholder expectations and their impact on the project, and to develop appropriate management strategies for effectively engaging stakeholders in project decisions and execution Stakeholder Identification Stakeholder Engagement Project Communication Key Concepts Stakeholder Management Stakeholder Satisfaction IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo MGMT-8680 73Stakeholder Management Tailoring STAKEHOLDER DIVERSITY COMPLEXITY OF STAKEHOLDER COMMUNICATION RELATIONSHIPS TECHNOLOGY Agile/Adaptive Environments IT Operations & Project Management -Prof. Sean Yo MGMT-8680 75Unit 4 - Questions?